>> If you know the enemy, and know yourself, you need not fear the result of 100 battles.
If you know yourself, but not the enemy, for every victory gained, you'll also suffer defeat.
If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle.
These ideas come from Chinese General and Philosopher, Sun Tzu's, The Art of War,
Incredibly enough, over 2,500 years later,
each of those three points directly applies
to the world of cyber security.
Cyber security is a great umbrella term referring to protecting the confidentiality,
integrity, and availability of computing devices and networks, hard [inaudible] software, and,
most importantly, data and information.
Cyber security involves times when data or information is
in transit, being processed, and at rest.
Cyber security is achieved through procedures, products, and people.
We're going to investigate these terms and concepts throughout the course.
Some like to think of cyber security as a subset of information security, a very general term
which also deals with information stored physically,
in addition to cyber security's pure digital form.
Cyber security requires knowing who the hackers are, who the attackers are,
what their motivations are, where our vulnerabilities lie,
and how protected we actually are.
Easier said than done.
What exactly is cyberspace?
The enemy could be thousands of miles away, or in the very next cubicle at work, or both!
If the attacker has penetrated your network and is sitting silently, watching and observing,
collecting tons of information until the time comes to launch to attack.
Nowadays, hackers lurk on networks silently just watching for hundreds of days at a time!
Completely undetected!
This is a constant cat and mouse game.
Companies pay penetration testers to find and exploit vulnerabilities.
Pen testers can make recommendations, but what good are they
if the companies don't implement them?
What good are they if the companies do implement them to check off compliance boxes,
and then don't actively monitor their infrastructure afterwards?
What good are hardware and security implementations if the weakest link, the humans,
fall victim to social engineering attacks?
Which don't involve any technology, but, rather, prey on the gullible and naive humans.
We've heard too many of these link-clicking stories.
Who is to blame if the employees are not properly educated and trained?
Who's to blame if the employees are educated and trained,
but not tested to seeing not only what they learned,
but how they will react in certain situations?
We often fear the unknown hackers from the outside,
but insiders are a much greater threat, and can do far greater damage.
They already have some level of access, means, and opportunity.
One of the biggest problems today in cyber security is the putting out fires mentality.
Stopping the hackers.
However, treating each attack as an isolated incident is a huge mistake.
There needs to be greater intelligence, correlated attacks, to previous attacks,
both within a company and between companies.
The more intel that can link one attack to a previous one, the more equipped we can be
in protecting ourselves going forward!
The hackers are doing far more sharing and collaborating than the good guys.