
JONATHAN S. WEISSMAN: I want to run down
some of the more noteworthy data breaches
that were brought to light over the past few years
with some interesting tidbits on each.
One of the main things to focus on here
is how many customers lost their confidentiality.
Announced in 2013, Target, 70 million customers affected.
The breach started when credentials from their HVAC
company were stolen.
Announced in 2014, Chase, 83 million customers affected.
The breach started because JP Morgan's security team
didn't upgrade a server with two-factor authentication.
Home Depot, 56 million customers affected.
Like Target, the breach started from credentials stolen
from a third-party vendor, unpatched windows systems
were also directly in the mix.
Sony, confidential data from Sony Pictures including
personal information of employees
and their families, corporate emails, salary information,
and unreleased films were released.
Sony was ordered to pull the film, The Interview, which
had a plot to assassinate North Korea's Kim Jong Un.
Announced in 2015, OPM, the Office of Personnel Management,
25 million users affected.
Security clearance information as well as fingerprints
were stolen.
Secret agents, even if they changed their names,
were now no longer safe.
Ashley Madison, 40 million users,
and I say it like that because it
was revealed that most females were fake bots and not
actual humans.
Major League Baseball's Houston Astros.
A front office executive went from the St. Louis Cardinals
to the Houston Astros, changing jobs,
and was required to turn his laptop and password.
A Cardinals's executive tried the former executive's
old password on the computer systems
in Houston, his new digs.
After mixing and matching with the old Cardinals's password,
he got in.
Player rankings, confidential data, trade negotiation notes,
and more were seen and subsequently dumped for all
to see.
After the Astros' reset their passwords,
the Cardinals's executive hacked the employee's email,
getting the password reset email so he
could continue his monitoring.
Kaspersky, a cyber security and antivirus provider, Last Pass,
a password management service, and Hacking Team,
a company that sells hacking tools to governments and law
enforcement, all three of these entities
were hacked themselves.
Health care providers were breached.
Excellus BCBS had 10.5 million affected customers,
Anthem, 78.8 million affected customers,
and Premera, 11 million affected customers.
You can change your password after a hack
but you can't change your health care information which
includes, among other things, your social security
number, home address, and patient health history.
The Ukraine power grid was hacked and would be again
the following year, 2016.
The first attack started when workers
clicked on an attachment, enabling macros
in a Microsoft Word document.
Announced in 2016, the Society for Worldwide Interbank
Financial Telecommunication, SWIFT,
is a network through which financial institutions
can send and receive financial transaction information.
They were hacked.
The plot was actually uncovered when the hackers misspelled
the word foundation.
Hacks on Myspace, the biggest hack ever
at that point in time, exposed information
on 427 million users.
The dump of user information from hacks
on Gmail, Yahoo, and Hotmail, totaled 273 million users.
LinkedIn, 117 million users.
You might be thinking Myspace.
Who cares, right?
Wrong.
People have a habit of reusing passwords.
Hackers don't care about your old Myspace account,
they care about the password which you might be reusing
for your bank website today.
How many old accounts do you not even remember about anymore?
How many of them have passwords that you're currently
using on your active accounts?
Mark Zuckerberg, founder of Facebook,
he himself was hacked in this very fashion.
His Twitter and Pinterest accounts
were penetrated because his password for those accounts
was the same as the one revealed in the LinkedIn breach.
The hackers can tie your email address, your user ID,
and even your name from old accounts to new ones
that you're actively using today.
So yes, the Myspace hack is very relevant today.
Oh, and don't reuse passwords, ever.
Related to the recent United States presidential election,
the Democratic National Committee,
the Democratic Fundraising Committee, the Clinton
campaign, and Hillary Clinton's email server
were all in the news for being hacked.
Yahoo announced that 500 million users were hacked
and later announced a separate hack
had stolen the information related to one billion users,
ranking it as the greatest data breach of all time.
What all these hacks do you have in common is number one,
the financial repercussions to clean up these messes
were in the tens of millions of dollars or more.
And number two, most of the disclosures
were multiple years after the actual hacks,
which means the attackers were in,
watching, observing, and collecting information
for long periods of time undetected.
