
JONATHAN WEISSMAN: Good engineering
involves thinking about how things can be made to work.
The security mindset involves thinking about how
things can be made to fail.
It involves thinking like an attacker, an adversary,
or a criminal.
You don't have to exploit the vulnerabilities you find.
But if you don't see the world that way,
you'll never notice most security problems.
These thoughts come from Bruce Schneier,
international renowned cryptographer
and security technologist.
A vulnerability is a weakness, a flaw in a program,
device, network, and even a person.
Using a laptop, security researchers
controlled a Jeep Cherokee.
Cold air was blasted from the vents.
Next up on the blasting list was hip-hop music
from the speakers.
Then, wipers and wiper fluid followed.
The car's display then showed a picture of the hackers.
After the car went out on the highway,
the hackers cut the transmission.
The car was now completely stopped.
This was actually the second time
the driver allowed the researchers to use him
as a crash test dummy.
Previously, they had disabled the brakes, made the horn honk,
and also had some fun with the seat belt and steering wheel.
After Chrysler's Uconnect vulnerabilities
were uncovered by these researchers,
Chrysler mailed over a million USB drives to owners
through the USPS.
That was a great thing, for hackers,
who can now send fake USBs out and get
owners to plug malicious devices into their vehicles.
United Airlines gave two hackers a million
frequent flyer miles for discovering
software vulnerabilities.
Bug bounty programs, allowing hackers
to identify security issues and reward
them has become a real business model today,
implemented by big companies in many different industries,
like United Airlines.
All across the world, researchers
were able to hack an internet-connected toilet
in Japan.
Potential damage includes, flushing the toilet
and bringing up the owner's water bill,
flipping the toilet lid up and down, and running the bidet
and air dry functions, causing discomfort or distress,
in the words of the researchers.
From a hospital and medical perspective,
researchers found drug infusion pumps
that can have dosages changed, defibrillators
that can give shocks or prevent a shock via Bluetooth,
X-rays that were accessible, refrigerators storing
blood and drugs that can have temperatures changed,
digital medical records that can be altered causing misdiagnoses
or incorrect prescriptions, as well as tons
of other vulnerabilities.
Of course, crashing systems and bringing them down
was also possible.
These systems all shared poor or no authentication,
weak default or hard-coded passwords,
as well as embedded web interfaces for ease of hacking.
What would General Tooth have said about all of this?
In a real attack--
not by researchers-- hackers controlled a baby monitor
and even injected audio into the baby's room.
The frantic parents stormed in fearing the worst.
There are websites that show live
streams from unsecured webcams all across the world--
webcams that haven't had their default username and password
combination changed, businesses, public spaces, and even
schools, daycare centers.
And you know this was common--
homes.
They're all visible for anyone to watch.
There are even categories for users
to pick from, like, bar, restaurant, kitchen, religion,
barber shop, mall, beach, airline, traffic, laundry,
pool, and much more.
