A major company Dyn, that is responsible for internet naming services of hundreds
of major websites, like PayPal, Amazon, Twitter, CNN, Fox News, GitHub, Visa,
and more was recently brought down by a distributed denial of service attack.
As massive amounts of fake visitors flooded their servers.
Hundreds of sites, as well as others, through side effects, were brought down for hours,
in three different time intervals that day.
Dyn's cybersecurity mechanisms were in place, but this was a brand new type of DDoS.
Dyn was brought down by nearly 100,000 DVRs, security cameras, webcams, thermostats,
refrigerators, coffee makers, and other internet of things devices in homes across the world.
These devices were hijacked through malware
and were instructed to attack Dyn's servers.
Either default usernames and passwords, un-updated software,
or flaws in the actual software can be blamed.
The users of these devices had no idea that they were, in essence, responsible.
Sometimes I hear people say, why should I do the security updates for my operating system?
Why should I update my software?
Why do I need a firewall at home?
Why do I need antivirus software?
I have nothing hackers would want.
Then I ask these people some questions.
Do you do your online banking, you pay your credit cards online?
Yes. Do you have access to information resources,
like personal, confidential information?
Or employer confidential information?
Yes. Do you have a high-speed internet connection at home?
Yes. Do you have devices at home that can be accessed over the internet, like your hotplate?
Yes. Even if you have nothing on the machines at home that hackers would be interested in,
they'd be very interested to watch you do what you do, log your username
and password combinations, clean out your entire bank accounts, and steal your identity.
Attacks are becoming increasingly complex, relying on a combination of techniques,
including exploitation of software vulnerabilities, and improper configuration,
malicious software, malware, and social engineering.