>> A hacker is someone who thinks outside the box, is technologically-inclined,
and finds unconventional solutions to problems, focusing on what is important.
The term originally didn't have any malicious connotation, but now it does.
Cracker was the original term for a malicious hacker.
Hackers are identified by the color of their hats.
A black hat hacker is that cracker, or malicious hacker.
A white hat hacker does what a black hat hacker does, breaking into companies and systems,
with their permission, of course, in hopes of finding and exploiting vulnerabilities.
So the company can fix those vulnerabilities before a black hat hacker can get in.
A grey hat hacker is somewhere in the middle.
One type of grey hat hacker might break into a system and prove it to the administrator,
then the grey hat will request payment to fix it, and if denied,
will move on without any malicious actions.
White hat, in that regard, but black hat, due to the fact that you can't break
into a company's infrastructure and see, steal, and store their information.
Script kiddies can be even worse!
They are inexperienced crackers, who use scripts and programs developed by others.
They often don't know what they're clicking or initiating, nor do they have any idea
of the scope, or consequences of their actions.
Of course, you might be interested in becoming something else, like a security researcher,
finding vulnerabilities anywhere.
Penetration tester, finding vulnerabilities within a certain company.
Or even a security architect, building systems and processes
to establish a cyber security presence.
There are times of speciality and subspecialty positions within the field of cybersecurity.
Due to the rapid development of tools, the attack sophistication
and the intruder technical knowledge are sharply going in opposite directions.
Hackers are able to do a lot more today, without the steep learning curve.
The FBI define the motivation of individuals who commit espionage against the country,
with the acronym, MICE, money, ideology, compromise or coercion, ego or extortion.
Researcher, Max Kilger, proposed that the motivations
for the hacker community can be thought of as MEECES, money, ego,
entertainment, cause, entrance, and status.
Attackers could be outsiders, competition, hacktivists, organized crime,
terrorists, governments, even hired guns!
They could be insiders, disgruntled employees, customers, suppliers, vendors,
business partners, contractors, temps, as well as consultants.