>> Another important cybersecurity model is the AAA or triple A model,
which doesn't have anything to do with the American Automobile Association.
The first A refers to authentication, which is the process
of proving you are who you say you are.
When you claim you are someone, that's called identification.
When you prove it, that's authentication.
If I drove from Rochester to Canada and told the border patrol, "I'm Jonathan S. Wiseman,
let me into Canada," I would get some strange looks at the very least.
Authentication requires proof in one of three possible forms: Something you know,
like a password; something you have, like a key fob; something you are -- biometrics.
When you combine more than one of these categories,
that's called multifactor authentication, and that really is the future of authentication.
Multifactor authentication makes it really hard to authenticate
as someone else -- impersonating them.
Because if a hacker steals your password, he'd also have to possess a small key fob with a code
that rotates in parallel with code on the server you're logging into.
Or he'd need your iris, retina, or hand geometry.
Using two passwords is not multifactor authentication because they both fall
under the same something you know category.
It's like putting two locks on your door at home that could be opened with the same key.
There was a belief at some point that biometrics would simply replace passwords.
But especially with all the data breaches in recent years,
it's very clear that while you can change your password,
you simply cannot change your biometrics.
If your biometrics are stolen, then what?
You also lose anonymity when using credentials that are directly tied to you.
Your profile can easily be constructed, tied to all your actions,
linking together everything you do and everywhere you go in cyberspace.
Not that sharing credentials is necessarily a good thing, but if you temporarily had to,
for instance, in an emergency situation
and biometrics was the only option, then what would you do?
What happens when you grow a beard and the biometric authentication fails?
False positives and false negatives are legitimate issues
and could restrict or even allow access in error.
These are the most compelling arguments for a combination of authentication methods known
as 2FA or two-factor authentication.
Many companies like Google, LinkedIn,
and banks have recently enabled their sites for this 2FA system.
Sending codes to your phone through SMS, short message service -- text messages --
you use these codes that are texted to your phone in addition
to a password to access an account.
NIST, the National Institute of Standards
and Technology subsequently denounced two-factor authentication through text messages.
They stated that 2FA with SMS should be deprecated immediately due to the fact
that SMS messages can be intercepted or redirected.
NIST recommended other options like Google authenticator or even certain USB dongles.
However, Google, Twitter, Facebook, and tons
of other major websites are still using text messages for two-factor authentication today.
NIST's demand at least to this point has been completely ignored
by both companies and their users.