
JONATHAN S. WEISSMAN: One of two protocols
will be used at Layer 4 of the OSI model
to encapsulate the data coming from Layers 5, 6, and 7.
TCP, Transmission Control Protocol segments,
or UDP, User Datagram Protocol datagrams,
will be selected by an application that's
sending data.
TCP establishes a connection between the source
and destination devices for reliable data transfer and flow
control, sending data at an acceptable rate,
both to the source and destination.
UDP is connectionless and has no flow control.
All bytes sent with TCP are ordered and sequenced.
TCP guarantees that every single byte sent
will be received with integrity and processed
in the correct order.
So actually there are, in fact, three things
that are guaranteed in life--
death, taxes, and TCP.
TCP segments are acknowledged.
So the sender knows the destination got the traffic.
If an acknowledgment specifically referencing
byte numbers of the data sent doesn't come back,
TCP resends the unacknowledged bytes.
UDP doesn't do this.
So which one is better?
Well, it depends.
TCP is used for things like file transfers, email,
and going to websites.
In those cases, accuracy is important.
If bytes are lost or corrupted, the whole message
could be destroyed.
UDP is used for real-time communications, conferencing
and streaming.
Furthermore, two major protocols coming up
in a future module, DNS and DHCP, both use UDP.
If every byte sent needed to be acknowledged on a VoIP call,
over the web, there could be problems
with lost acknowledgments.
TCP, on the source, would think the destination
didn't get the message and would resend it again.
So the destination would hear "hello"
and send its acknowledgment back to the source.
Let's say that the acknowledgment got lost.
The destination would hear these subsequent words
from the voice call that were already
sent by the source, "how are you doing today?"
But then the source would send "hello" back again.
That would be a very frustrating phone call.
You'd have the past coming back into the current conversation.
You'd have to imagine, though, that all audio
and video, real-time and streaming over the internet
and UDP datagrams, still has to be ordered to ensure they're
processed in the correct order.
RTSP, Real Time Streaming Protocol,
which exists at Layer 7, does the ordering for UDP.
Using RTSP just for the ordering of the UDP datagrams
involves significantly less overhead
than TCP would require.
If TCP was used, a connection would
have to be established and maintained.
Flow control would need to be added.
And acknowledgments would need to be sent.
The communication could slow down
based on these and other factors.
With UDP, if bytes are lost, we don't care.
They're just a fleeting moment in time.
You might not even notice.
TCP has much more overhead than UDP
and is deliberately slower, striving
for accuracy and integrity.
UDP has no overhead, and it's quicker,
striving for efficiency.