
JONATHAN WEISSMAN: Routers don't connect devices
of the same network together.
They connect different networks together.
So you wouldn't ever see a PC connected to a router.
Connected to a router, you'd find either a switch
or another router.
That little box we have at home that everyone calls router
actually has switch functionality built inside
of it.
If you've ever connected a desktop
to an interface on that router, you actually
plug the cable into the switch interface,
even though we call that little box router.
As we discussed earlier, when a router gets a packet
to send to a destination IP address,
the router consults its routing table
to see if it has knowledge of the destination network.
And if so, which router interface
should get the packet next?
If the router has no knowledge of the destination network,
it might have a default route of its own to send the packet to.
Without either knowledge of a destination network
or a default route for a router to send all packets
with unknown destinations to, the router
will drop the packet, and send an error message
back to the source through a protocol known as ICMP.

Today's internet backbone routers
are approaching 3/4 of a million--
750,000 routes in their routing tables.
On internal autonomous systems, there are much less.
An autonomous system represents a collection
of networks under one administrative control,
like an ISP or major entity like RIT.
Here at RIT, we have a collection
of internal networks.
Why would a bunch of networks be preferred to a single network?
Well, for one, think back to our ARP stories.
ARP requests and all other broadcast traffic
will always reach and be processed
by every single device on a network.
One reason why we might want multiple networks
interconnected by routers instead of one big flat network
is to reduce the size of the broadcast domain.
Instead of broadcasts tying up the bandwidth and processing
of all devices on a network, we've
now lowered the amount of broadcasts
that will proliferate through our network
and the amount of devices that can hear them.
It's why here at RIT, each class is taught in a room by itself.
If we add one humongous auditorium
and had all classes there simultaneously,
my students would have to listen and try
to understand all the other professors and classes.
That would take their attention away from me and my lessons.
Another reason why multiple networks
are preferred to one big flat network
is for security purposes.
Security at the router level in the form of an access control
list can be used to filter traffic
by source IP address, destination IP address,
protocols, and even ports.
This allows you to control access
to and from certain devices and resources
much better than if everything was on the same network.
It's also a way to hierarchically design
an entire network, and even makes
the troubleshooting process easier by isolating traffic
to a certain network.