
JONATHAN S. WEISSMAN: The way network communication
goes in and out of a machine physically is through the NIC,
network interface card.
The way network communication goes in and out
of a machine logically, though, is
through a program or service.
A service is a program that runs in the background, independent
of a log on that provides functionalities to a system.
Windows client machines, for instance,
will have a workstation service running
in the background that allows for connections
to remote network resources.
It's not tied to a single user log on
and is always running in the background.
When you start a web server, you're
starting a specific server service
that isn't tied to a specific user log on either.
This way, when the server reboots,
the service automatically starts before anyone logs on.
In the world of Linux, services are known as daemons.
Well, how does network communication go in and out
of a program or service?
Let's say a single machine is running both an FTP--
file transfer protocol-- server as well as a web server.
If they both are accessible by the same IP address,
how does the traffic for the FTP server
get to the FTP server and the traffic
for the web server get to the web server?
Think about an apartment building
with a mailbox grid in the lobby.
The man in apartment 21 checks his mail with a key to box 21,
and a woman in apartment 80 checks her mail
with a key to box 80.
The mailman brought their mail to the same building.
They both live in the same building with the same street
address.
This is like two different servers
that are accessible through the same IP address.
However, when traffic is destined
for the man in apartment 21, it is noted
on the front of the envelope.
And the same goes for mail addressed
for the woman in apartment 80.
Similarly, the way into and out of a program or service
is through a port.

A port is a logical end point of communication
that identifies a program or service
and is represented by a port number.

So in addition to source and destination Mac addresses
and source and destination IP addresses,
there are, in fact, source and destination ports.
Mac addresses are found in frames
at layer two of the OSI model.
IP addresses are found in packets at layer three.
Port numbers are found in either TCP segments or UDP datagrams
at layer four.
Based on the destination port, the destination machine
knows which program or service to send the data
to the same way that the mailman knows
to put the mail for apartment 21 in the box for apartment 21
and the mail for apartment 80 in the box for apartment 80.
Well-known ports from zero to 1,023
are used by major protocols and services.
For instance, FTP servers use port 21,
and web servers use port 80.
Registered ports from 1,024 to 49,151
are assigned by IANA, the Internet Assigned Numbers
Authority, for specific companies
that want a common port to be used for their programs
or protocols.
However, these ports can be used by any system if not in use.
Registered ports are locally significant to a system.
It's not like using a registered IP address, which
has global scope.
Dynamic ports from 49,152 to 65,535
are used by client applications on an as-needed basis.

For example, your browser might open up port 60,000
to send a request to a web server that
will be listening for requests on port 80, unencrypted HTTP.
The web server's response is sourced from port 80
and is destined for the port that your browser opened up.
After the communication between your browser and the web server
is complete, your browser will close the port it opened.
But the web server's port will remain open
for new incoming connections.
Your browser will subsequently open up
a different port in that dynamic range for its next request.
