>> MAC addresses alone wouldn't be enough for network communications.
They are not hierarchical, but rather flat addresses.
You can buy a NIC on the web right after someone in another country from the same website.
Even with the NICs being ordered from different countries,
the MAC addresses of those NICs could very well be sequential.
IP addresses alone wouldn't be enough for network communications either.
These logical addresses are leased to client devices on a dynamic basis.
In most cases, they're even geographical
with IP address numbers representing different parts of the world.
How do we tie those geographical, logical addresses to the devices
that are using them on a dynamic basis?
That's why the NICs and their MAC addresses are so very important.
The logical IP addresses can now be bound to and associated with a device
as MAC address for a duration of time.
That's how we keep track of which device is temporarily using an IP address
of a network at any point in time.
Think of a restaurant.
At one point in a given day, a certain couple might be sitting at table number 5.
Later, a group of friends will be sitting there.
Table number 5 will be associated
with a different reservation at different points in time.
Think of the table number as the host ID of the IP address.
The restaurant's street address could be the network ID portion of the IP address.
All tables in the restaurant after all are found at that location.
Table number 6 would be a different host ID
but it will still have the same street address as table number 5.
How do we know who is using that table at any given point in time?
The reservation name.
How do we know which device is using a given IP address at any point in time?
The MAC address.
An IP address, a MAC address, you simply can't have one without the other.
Think back to the beginning of this module when I told you a couple of stories.
I had to get Bob Smith's attention so I can get his house number.
I did so by shouting in the middle of the night, interrupting everyone
on the block, disturbing them all.
That's what host A did in story number 1 to get the MAC address of host B. In story number 2,
I realized that Staten Island was not local to me here in Rochester, neither was Philly.
So I had to get the traffic to my default gateway, my local UPS store.
That's what host A did when he realized that the destination was on a different network.