>> There are two addresses every device uses: MAC --
media access control, and IP -- internet protocol.
MAC addresses are physical addresses are physical addresses burned into the NIC --
network interface card -- which is the chip
through which all network communications enters and exits a machine.
MAC addresses are 48 bits long, represented with 12 base 16 hexadecimal characters,
and are separated into two sections.
The first six hex characters represent the manufacturer of the NIC assigned
by the I triple E -- the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers.
This OUI -- organizationally unique identifier -- is never duplicated.
The last six hex characters, the device ID, is a unique value assigned
to a manufacturer to each of its NICs.
The I triple E won't give out duplicate blocks of identifiers to manufacturers
and the manufacturers won't duplicate the device IDs.
So we can say that MAC addresses are globally unique.
No two MAC addresses are the same across the entire world.
IPv4 addresses are logical addresses, bound to NICs through software.
They are 32 bit addresses, represented with four base 10 decimal numbers,
and are also separated into two sections.
The first section represents the network ID, the starting string of bits that all nodes
on a shared network have in common.
The second section represents a host ID, a unique string --
like the MAC address device ID -- for each host on a shared network.
Unlike MAC addresses, it is not as simple as splitting the two parts down the middle.
An entity known as a subnet mask -- another 32 bit value --
identifies where the breakup of network ID and host ID occurs.
The subnet mask always has a string of ones, followed by a string of zeros.
The ones represent network bits and the zeros represent host bits.
In other words, when you line up an IP address with its subnet mask in binary,
if there is a one in the subnet mask row, it means that the corresponding bit
in the IP address row in the same column is a network bit,
shared by all hosts on the same network.
A zero for a subnet mask bit means that the corresponding bit in the IP address row
in the same column is a host bit.
In the next video, we'll see exactly how this subnet mask is used.